# 0.5.0

Riptide 0.5.0 introduces [Performance optimizations]. These include the change, that under
Mac and Windows most volumes are now no longer stored on the host file system, but
in internal named volumes of the VM instead.

This also affects volumes of projects, which were previously stored under `_riptde/data`
in projects, such as MySQL databases.

If you need the data, you need to manually export the data of these volumes before upgrading
Riptide and then import it after the upgrade.

**Linux is not affected by these changes (unless the performance option is manually enabled).
This guide assumes you are using MacOS or Windows.**

## Exporting and importing databases

To export and import databases, use the `riptide db-export` and `riptide-db-import`
commands, see [Managing Databases](../user_docs/db).

## Exporting and importing other data

Riptide does not offer export or import functionality for other data.

## I already upgraded, what now?

If you already upgraded Riptide to 0.5.0, you can disable the performance option and
access the data again to export it. You can then enable it again and import the data.

To disable the performance optimization, run `riptide config-edit-user` and set
`performance.dont_sync_named_volumes_with_host` to `false`.

To enable it again after the export, set `performance.dont_sync_named_volumes_with_host` to `auto`

If you unable to migrate, you can also leave the performance option disabled.

[performance optimizations]: ../user_docs/performance_optimizations
