# 0.9.0

Riptide 0.9 introduces improvements to installing Riptide. If coming from previous versions, please read the sections below the changelog.

## Changelog

- The documentation has been updated to make initial installation much easier.
- For Linux an install script now exists to install Riptide with all dependencies and fully configure it.
- Riptide can now be installed and configured via NixOS or nix-darwin modules.
- Fixed some environment variables leaking into command containers, most notably XDG directory related variables.
- Fixed that the self updater potentially uses the wrong Python environment when trying to update.
- Fixed handling the hosts file under MacOS and Windows.
- Proxy Server: Fixed compatibility with some WebSocket applications.

## Uprading

The installation instructions have changed. The recommended way to install Riptide is via a virtualenv. If you were not using a virtualenv before
(if you don't know you most likely didn't) please read on below.

### Linux

If you are under NixOS, you can now install Riptide as a module, see {doc}`/installation/linux_nixos`.

On other Linux distributions, uninstall Riptide packages by running:

```bash
sudo pip3 uninstall -y riptide-all riptide-cli riptide-engine-docker riptide-db-mysql riptide-db-mongo riptide-proxy riptide-lib riptide-plugin-php-xdebug
```

After this follow the {ref}`manual Linux installation instructions <installation/linux_any:Manual Installation>`.
Do not use the automatic installation script.

### MacOS

First, uninstall old Riptide packages:

```bash
sudo pip3 uninstall -y riptide-all riptide-cli riptide-engine-docker riptide-db-mysql riptide-db-mongo riptide-proxy riptide-lib riptide-plugin-php-xdebug
```

Then decide on how to install Riptide:

- For MacOS the best working Riptide setup is now provided with nix-darwin. If you are comfortable using Nix you can use this,
  but please note that nix-darwin itself may still be a bit unstable at this stage. The nix-darwin setup supports automatically running
  the proxy server and supports automatically updating the hosts file. See {doc}`/installation/macos_nix_darwin` for more information.
- Alternatively you can manually install Riptide like before. Follow the {doc}`manual MacOS installation instructions </installation/macos_manual>`.

Do not use the automatic installation script. You can skip the "Shell integration" and "Systemd service" steps if you already have those set up.

### Windows

Uninstall the global Riptide packages by running:

```powershell
pip3 uninstall -y riptide-all riptide-cli riptide-engine-docker riptide-db-mysql riptide-db-mongo riptide-proxy riptide-lib riptide-plugin-php-xdebug
```

After this follow the {doc}`Windows installation instructions </installation/windows>`.
